this episode is sponsored by north one
to learn more about business banking
with north one visit
north one dot com slash impact
now enjoy the episode there's this thing
people think that like i'll be happy
when once i get like this big amazing
home or once i get this
car then i'll allow myself some
happiness the problem is the finish line
always moves
you never arrive there right
so there are everyone who has any
experience whether you're an employee or
an entrepreneur has had
something bad happen to them
you need to have some persistence you
need to have a focus on what you want to
do
you need to know how to cooperate with
other people share the credit
you need to how to communicate well with
people either orally or
writing or some other method
stop trying to convince everybody of
what you're saying that's not the
threshold of being a good communicator
people do not need to believe what
you're saying
they need to believe you believe what
you're saying that's influence
influences you believe i believe it
one common mistake that people make is
they just try to cut a little bit of
everything
five percent here five percent their
life sucks when you do that you would be
better off picking your two to three
biggest expenses
and going after it so the important
thing
in terms of investing what that means is
you need to know how to diversify well
my standard is one more minute on the
treadmill my standard is
one more person i can reach that day one
more phone call one more something
nobody ever won a nobel prize working
five days a week nine to five
if you're going to do something great it
takes a lot of time and hard work is
important
you've got the the whole concept of
blissfully dissatisfied which i think is
brilliant
thank you walk people through what that
is but but what i really want to know is
how do you keep that from breaking you
wow that's no one's asked me that before
it's it's along the same vein
really as um getting what you'll
tolerate so
there's this misnomer and you've watched
this even in your own life or the
successful people you've interviewed so
there's this thing people think that
like i'll be happy when
once i get like this big amazing home or
once i get this
car or once i get this relationship or
an amount of money then i'll allow
myself some happiness the problem is
the finish line always moves you never
arrive there right
the other part is people think well if i
enjoy myself now
i'm going to lose my drive in other
words if i can just wire myself with
enough pain
all the time i won't lose my driver
ambition the truth is there's no
correlation between the two at all
there's no relationship between you
feeling complete pain all the time and
losing drive and so
i talk about living in a state of
blissful dissatisfaction and
really the best example of that would be
like if you've ever i love a good meal
right
you know if i bite into a great piece of
steak if you're a steak eater like i am
you take that first bite it's like
complete bliss
right there's no correlation between how
great that tasted and your lack of
desire for the next bite
in fact that bliss causes you to want
more of it
and so the more we can be into a reward
ourselves with bliss we're not gonna
lose our dissatisfaction we're not gonna
we're not gonna lose that and so for me
our brains
this dopamine hit you get when you do
something successful if you constantly
cheat yourself out of that hit
right biomechanically in your body less
and less in the future where you want to
achieve the next level the next dream
the next step
and that's why so many people stall out
in life they didn't they got to a
certain point and they cheated
themselves out of the bliss out of the
celebration it's important
that we celebrate our wins we celebrate
our lives because it causes us to want
the next bite
it keeps us hungrier not the reverse and
so for me i want to live in a state of
being grateful
and blissful now not waiting for some
future place or date that may never
arise um but back on your audience
i i think your audience ranges from um
you know there's a wide range that you
have in your audience
and i would say that there are many
people in your audience
who can plan for
a simple lifestyle that can be wonderful
sometimes we acquire
these needs that aren't at anywhere near
as big
as as we make them out to be
um you know um do you have a bed to
sleep in
do you have food to eat do you have
basic health care
okay if you start to think okay
what are my needs that i really need
and i'm okay and how can i make
provisions for those
needs then once you've got that in your
mind
you're you're free okay you you can go
beyond that
uh that you may say listen oh i can do
that for
a year or two years or a month or
whatever but you
i think we visualize too much
the things that we're used to one of the
good things about this exercise
is that you can bring it brings you back
to basics you can be brought to basics
and like i'm saying if you have a bed to
sleep in
and you've got food and so on and you
have those basics and and good
relationships with people who care about
you and basic health care
so if you budget for that and you figure
how do you have it
maybe it isn't in the luxurious place
you're in
maybe it's in the country and so on
once you visualize that and you get that
down in your head and you say oh i can
get that
then your stress will disappear because
you
as you visualize that in many ways
that's a happy life
it doesn't take a lot to there's
stimulation there's nature there's
relationships
these fundamental wonderful things the
most important things
can be obtained and so for many of you
i think if you look at that and you
budget for that i'm seeing a number of
people
um who are um going broke
uh and and i've watched this over many
years
and really it's just the adjustment
process
when that once they get to that point
where ah
you know they have they get settled
they're fine it's the ambiguity it's the
worry
it's the stress so if you do that from
the beginning
and you have that that played out in
your head
then you know everything from there you
can play with and it's your
it's uh icing on the cake so i want to
emphasize you can budget for that you
can look at that
find that scenario find what that looks
like
so that you know you got it down then
you know you're safe
once you've got safe everything beyond
that is luxury
so the first thing is the people i know
that are really happy
are very self-aware in fact the best
entrepreneurs i know are very self-aware
they're
aware of their shortcomings right they
want to improve them they want to get to
the next version of themselves all the
time
and so for me self-confidence comes
because i didn't have it
and i think anytime you meet somebody
like yourself or myself who might
now appear self-confident it's because i
really had to find tools and resources
because i
was so insecure and shy and introverted
so i
had to find techniques and resources to
build that up in me
and for me it's very simple it's the
promises that i keep to myself
if i have a habit over and over
beginning to stack one on top of the
other of keeping promises i make to me
not other people
in other words the minute you begin to
get external in your life worrying about
what other people think about you right
you've
you've lost all control you and it never
fills you up and
people's admiration people's gratitude
towards you will never fill you up it's
your own it's your own inside
and so for me self-confidence comes from
keeping the promises i make to myself
and the other part of it is
being aware i'm doing it in other words
most people don't give themselves enough
credit all the time
they're very aware of these 20 things
and not aware of the 80
right and that's why the dosage is so
important too you've nailed it it should
be 80
20 right because people get addicted to
this i'm not good at this
people don't like this about me i don't
feel good instead of focusing on the 80
and stacking up wow i did eat what i
said i was going to today i did get up
when i said i was going to i made the
amount of phone calls i treated people
in such a way i promised myself
it's not just doing those things it's
rewarding it's being aware of it and
stacking that up
when i work with athletes the successful
athletes i work with
when they're in a slump it's never that
they can't hit a ball anymore or
make a shot or swing a golf club they've
lost their self-confidence somewhere
along the way
they've lost the ability to focus on the
things they are great at and stacking
those promises they make to themselves
and the way i get them to break their
slump
is not correcting their swing or getting
them positive it's getting them to
acknowledge the small promises showing
up to batting practice early hitting
that extra bucket of balls
beginning to reward themselves for the
extra promises they keep to themselves
puts them back in a state of
self-confidence all of a sudden they're
hitting the ball great again
well in my view success is happiness the
most elusive thing in life is personal
happiness
thomas jefferson wrote about the pursuit
of happiness he never told us how to
actually get it
but finding somebody that's happy with
their life
is really really good so if you ever
meet a poor person
and they are very happy with what
they're doing why should you say your
life isn't successful
they're very happy with what they're
doing if you meet a very wealthy person
and he or she is tortured with their
money and they don't know what to do
with it their children hate them
everybody hates them
is that person successful i don't really
think so i think success
comes about when you're happy because
that's the point of life to some extent
is
being happy that's why we're all here i
guess to some extent we want to make the
life better for other people
but to some extent if you are making
life better for other people you're
going to be happy
in my view the reason my standards are
set
so high is because i don't want to leave
it up to my own devices
right my standard is one more minute on
the treadmill my standard is
one more person i can reach that day one
more phone call one more something
and so for me i raise them every single
year but the way i get to do it is i
link it to my reasons
and so goals are really empty to me i
have a thing on goal setting but like my
big thing is that
you show me something with compelling
emotional gigantic
reasons i'll show you someone who's
changing their standards all day long so
like
give you one quick version that you not
heard before one of the reasons i'm
relatively fit
is not just peak state
my uncle in my family that died at 50
years old of a heart attack my godfather
my dad's only brother i kind of
resembled him and i look like him a lot
so
on the way back from his funeral my
reticular activators on heart attacks
on the tv screen on the airplane i'm
listening to music is the oprah winfrey
show she's going through a new heart
scan
i've unplugged my headphones plugged
into the airplane one they're telling
this new scan at cedar cyanide that at
that time was new it could read the
plaques in your arteries the
calcifications without going
you know really invasively i scheduled
it i went in
i had a world-class doctor who
understood reasons and leverage instead
of just prescribing
when we coach people you need to do this
you need to do this doctors do it take
this pill take this
he understood leverage and reasons what
you do is you take the scan then you go
to lunch you come back
i took the scan i went to i had a
burrito i came back and i'm in the la
when i walk in i sit down the doctor
comes up
and he says oh my
i can't believe these arteries are in
that young body uh
got my attention we walk back in we sit
down he could still go you need
crestor eat clean get out of here is
that what an average doctor does right
no wired me with huge reasons he goes
let me ask you a question
i heard your wife's pregnant you have i
said i have a son and he says do you
want to be there when he graduates from
high school
to be there for that day i said yes sir
yeah
he goes your wife's pregnant what do you
have and i said a daughter this is where
you get a dad he goes
she was six months pregnant he goes do
you um would you like to walk her down
the aisle on her wedding day are you
okay that it's some other man
i went what the is on the scan
right like and he goes i want to be very
clear with you if you keep going down
the road you're going there'll be some
other man with your son at graduation
high school
and a stranger's walking your daughter
down the other not even born yet
on her wedding day and i went boom and
he goes but if you do exactly what i
tell you to do
you'll be there and so to this day
brother there are mornings when i wake
up not every morning i don't want to go
to the gym i go bella's wedding
bella's wedding bella's wedding so my
standards are high because of my big old
reasons
other dudes may miss the gym that day
because they're not going to miss their
daughter's wedding if they don't go but
i've convinced myself i get emotional
i've convinced myself i'll miss my
daughter's wedding so i will get my ass
out of bed at four o'clock in the
morning and i will get to that gym
because my
reasons are bigger so my standards are
higher
well sure happiness can be a momentary
thing in some cases
you're happy that something happened uh
big success happened here you did
something you got an award or something
uh your children call you up and say
they're proud of you if that ever
happens
but fulfillment means that you're
content and contentment
really is a more long-lasting kind of
thing you know to be fulfilled i think
is being
uh is something that can goes on for
quite some time happiness can be more
transitory you're happy one day you're
unhappy the next day
but when you're fulfilled i think it's
more long-lasting and probably a better
thing
so how did you craft that message for
your kids
one thing that it seems like you've
really established yourself as in your
career somebody who's
deeply persuasive able to like you said
a good leader get people to go somewhere
that's going to be good for them
how did you set your kids up for that
for pursuing
happiness or fulfillment there was a
famous book that
was written called presidential power
and in it it was
written by a man named richard neustadt
and he said look president doesn't have
that much power he only has the power to
persuade
and as i thought about it that's what
life is all about persuading somebody to
do something
go on your show read your book uh greet
with your theories
life is all about persuading people even
albert einstein couldn't come up with e
equals m c squared and everybody said
you're right he had to go persuade
people that he was correct about that
so persuasion is very important so there
are three ways to persuade and
communicate
one orally you're a good talker you're
martin luther king you're abraham
lincoln a good writer you're
mark twain you write very well but the
most powerful way
is by leading by example persuading by
example so with my kids
i was a hard worker and i tried to
educate them about the value of hard
work
i read a lot i try to educate them about
the value of
reading treating other people well i
tried to educate them but
children learn by seeing what their
parents do if your parents are
are doing certain things and they're
telling kids to do the opposite that's
probably not gonna work
so you have to kind of do what you're
trying to get your kids to do and lead
by example now nobody's a perfect parent
i'm certainly not
but um you know trying to lead by
example is probably what i
tried to do and and to some extent uh it
worked and you know my kids are not
perfect i'm not perfect and everybody
has their flaws
but i think generally they're reasonably
happy and generally they're reasonably
successful
by normal human standards i got to tell
you that um
your mind gravitates towards which it is
most familiar with
and so if you're really familiar with
what you're worried about and what your
problems are and your fears are and that
becomes your dominating thinking i know
you've all heard this but here's the
reason why your mind
loves what's familiar okay and so if you
don't go touch dreams for example
just experience it for a second for
example we would go down
once every eight weeks if i did well in
business we really knocked it out we
could find a deal i had 200 bucks we'd
go to the ritz carlton or some hotel
ocean and for one day oceanfront feel
like what it felt like to
valet your car right walk in the lobby
mr milette welcome back
right she'd go get a massage i'd play a
little bit of golf
and just for that day i'd touch the
dream and then maybe we'd do it again in
a month or two and again in a month just
little taste of it my mind began to
begin to become familiar with it and
more crazy i started to kind of trick
myself into thinking i belonged there
because we never end up anywhere we
don't believe we don't belong and then
we're not familiar with so there's these
things you'd like to do in your life
either visually seeing them over and
over again or repeating those images to
yourself that's powerful
but a double whammy is to not only
repeat them and see them but to go to
see there's one thing that's a visual
stimulus in your brain that makes you
want to do something
the triple whammies if you could see it
touch it feel it and smell it
if you allow all your senses to
experience something it becomes
far more familiar to your brain and so
i'm a massive
massive advocate of touching a dream in
any form you can get it the best of
which is actually going and experiencing
it
short term people begin to believe you
belong there you're a little bit better
and so i you will not probably produce
many things in your life that you've not
visited either mentally or
literally thousands of times and so if
you want to end up somewhere you better
be visiting them those could be dreams
visions but the most important thing is
if you could actually more powerful so
you go touch them short term
massive difference drive by the
neighborhood see the cars if you want to
spend your life in service for your
church or your community
take a day out every month and actually
do it know what it feels like for an
afternoon to feed the homeless or to do
and you begin to love it and feel it and
believe you belong there more and more
chance that you'll be able to do that
full time someday
i have definitely made some changes in
my financial advice
one of the first things is that i am now
advising people to
target a one-year emergency fund which
sounds like a lot we can talk about
how do you calculate that and how do you
actually do that if you lost your job
for example
but that's one change um you know
another thing that i've
really been talking to people about is
the psychological mindset
of how to take action right now and you
know there's a little framework that
i've been sharing with
people which is step one is you have to
accept
reality and that means that for example
if you're a waiter
your job's not coming back for a long
time and we have to just
accept that that is the case that's
really painful
because culturally most of us are
optimistic
we want to go west we think that
everything's going to work out all of
our movies end with two people walking
off in the sunset
but sometimes reality is a little
tougher than that uh the second thing
that we have to do is make a plan
it's one thing to be worried and anxious
about money fine
all of us are feeling that way but after
we accept reality
uh we have to decide hey what if things
go great how am i going to come out of
this
but also what if things go poorly and
then finally we have to move
uh in normal times we are so uh
we get paralyzed and if you think about
if you're driving down the freeway
and you see something in the middle of
the road what's the first thing you do
you slam on the brakes it makes sense
but in a time like this in a crisis
that's actually the last thing that you
want
so what is looking at the historical
perspective
what are things that are safe
bets in terms of this job is going to be
here in five years that this is a good
place to begin
building that skill set you're talking
about the skill set not the investment i
guess
yeah skill set i think that that's maybe
more useful for people if they've just
lost their job and you know they're sort
of just trying to make ends meet at this
point
well in terms of um
i think in terms of any environment
the lessons that we get over and over
again is that you can't be
sure what the next environment and
twists and turns are
what you don't know is greater than
anything you do know
so if if you were in the airline
business
or you were in the hospitality business
and that was wonderful and you liked it
and everything else all of a sudden
that changed in important ways so the
important thing
it more are the more general abilities
in terms of investing what that means is
you need to know how to diversify well
that's the most important thing
in terms of any aspect in life to know
how to deal with what you don't know
is more important than anything you know
because the world is so much more
surprising
than you can really be sure of so in a
general
sense for skills i mean i think and
skills are part of you what what are
your environment
you know find out those things that um
are that are self-sufficient and
maintain
uh flexibility you have to know how to
maintain flexibility and change well if
your career
is in one area um you have to know how
this you have to develop the skill for
changing a career
and that all comes down to knowing how
to find the path
to know how to triangulate well with
others
let's talk about business banking with
north one with north one you can manage
your money from
anywhere whether you're working from
home or on the go
everything you need to manage your
business finances is at your fingertips
with north one north one make sure that
you
never step foot inside a bank branch
again
north one can also help you easily save
for big expenses with their subaccounts
feature that automatically helps you
save for things like
tax time rent and payroll and all of
your favorite business tools are
connected to your bank account for easy
access
shopify stripe square paypal and
more with north one you can build and
send invoices in seconds from your bank
account
track your invoices to know when you've
been paid and
send reminders when you haven't you can
use the north one mobile app to send and
deposit checks digitally in
seconds that means no more checkbooks
and
no more bank lines and if you need a
digital banking option that still lets
you do cash
north one is the way to go north one
lets you deposit and withdraw cash
for free through one of america's
largest atm
networks if you want to learn more about
business banking with north one
visit dot com north1.com
impact that's north o n e dot com
slash impact to learn more about
business banking with north
one take care guys and be legendary
okay great let's start with people who
lost their job i want to talk to them
first because it is urgent
for them and other people who still have
their job or have savings you have a
little bit more leeway
so for both groups the typical advice
that you hear
is to shrink and cut back on everything
but as i've always said there's a limit
to how much you can cut there's no limit
to how much you can earn
so there are really three ways that i
talk about in terms of getting
stable and it's the ceo strategy cut
costs
we all know the the flavor but i'll give
you a specific example i had somebody
uh reach out to me and say ramit my
wedding isn't for
like seven or eight months what do you
think i should do
and i said without missing a beat i said
you got to cancel it
and as someone who has planned a large
wedding i know how painful that is
to just think of all the money lost all
the planning all the time
but at a time like this money in your
pocket
is worth more than money in your pocket
later
so money in your pocket now is worth
more than money in your pocket later
that means
if you have to cancel certain things
that are going to incur fees later
fine deal with the fees later but get
the money in your pocket that's c
e earn more we can talk about earning
more in a second
but there's a whole opportunity there to
start businesses and start earning more
oh is really something that a lot of
people haven't thought about right now
so whether you have a job or not you can
call
up the companies that you owe money to
or you transact with
and you can get some surprisingly great
results
for example your student loan company if
you guys
owe student debt if you owe credit card
debt
uh if you have a cable bill a cell phone
bill or even a
landlord you pick up the phone and this
is what you say you say
i've been a good customer for three
years covid 19 is making it difficult
for me to be able to pay my bills like i
usually do
i'd like to know what options you have
available for me
and my readers have used this script a
lot of them have gotten
their payments paused with no finance or
interest charges
and some of them have even gotten rent
waived
so there's a lot of opportunity you're
talking about possible
hundreds or even a thousand plus dollars
with one phone call
that is how you start what i'm
desperately trying to figure out for
myself is
what level of proactiveness of learning
about their health
they can do to try to weather this storm
because
short of just saving and cutting
expenses
and maybe that's it maybe there isn't
any more that they can do
but i guess that's my direct question is
there something more uh
i mean you know the parts right it's
it's income expenses and savings
okay now you can go get the money maybe
the
money comes in and you say okay my
unemployment benefits are going to be
this
or my this is but um those are the parts
then the issue is uh how clever are you
at uh dealing with
you know it's so rare to hear someone
going on offense
with their money most often like 99
of the time people are playing life on
defense especially with their money
i guess i spent that much i don't nobody
taught me about money
oh there's no way to make money on and
on and on and even
in the relatively simple area of cost
cutting
you were like no that i'm going
after it i'm going to become an
animal as you put it and so you don't
have to have that aggression
in every part of your life i think at a
certain point it would become
counterproductive maybe
but just to pick that one zone and say
i'm going to dominate this and whatever
winning means to you so let me give a
couple of suggestions for people
for how you can start and then how you
can take it to the
to the next level if you want to first
off with cutting
one common mistake that people make is
they just try to cut a little bit of
everything
five percent here five percent there
life sucks when you do that
and the classic thing we've all heard is
three dollar lattes blah blah blah
saving three dollar lattes is not gonna
change your life at all okay i've run
the math you save it for 60 000 years
maybe you end up with some real material
savings none of us are doing it
you would be better off picking your two
to three biggest expenses
and going after them going really hard
okay you got a car payment let's look at
that
um you know student loans have i called
up my student loan company
have i gone and typed in student loan
debt payoff and calculated how i could
shave
four years off the payments no nobody
has they spend their life complaining
but they never read a single good book
about personal finance for their entire
life
so pick two areas two to three target
ten fifteen percent savings if you can
achieve those
you don't have to worry about cutting
back on three dollar lattes those two to
three
big expenses can be amazing now if you
wanna go all the way
like to what you did you can get
aggressive and you can start cutting
everything
but i would recommend because money is
also a psychology game is you want to
get a couple of wins
under your belt first so even something
as simple as getting your credit card
uh fee waived that's 35 bucks it's not
that much in the grand scheme but you're
going to be like
wait a second tie myself on the back i
actually did this
and now you can start to get more
aggressive so what can the average
person take away from that they don't
have bonds
they don't think like that they may not
even understand what their 401k
is or they may not even have a 401k so
how do they
navigate this is it just head down do
your best to weather the storm or is
there actually something that they can
learn from the historical perspective
and move on now
to make this easier for them yeah it's
the
it's the same for every individual same
for every company
same and you if you understand this then
you understand
there well there are three things um
the first is
look at your income your expenses
and your savings
and then do a stress test
so that you get yourself secure
if you were to lose your income or if
the income were to fall
beyond a certain level and you play that
out
maybe that means you go get unemployment
insurance but or whatever
how long can you live
in an acceptable lifestyle and do you
have a savings
that is adequate for that okay
so what you do is you calculate if i
lived
in a simpler lifestyle and
i had this amount of earnings
how many months how many months or years
could i live acceptably
then you look at your what what do you
put the money in
what are you saving okay so i'm really
glad that you you
have shared that you were on
unemployment i think anyone who has had
a long career
has had something bad happen to them i
was laid off
from my own company right so there are
everyone who has any
experience whether you're an employee or
an entrepreneur has had
something bad happen to them and i
say that because i've had my own i will
teach you to be rich readers
who have come to me and some of them as
recently as four weeks ago
they were big ballers they had great
jobs they were doing very well
and suddenly they were laid off through
no fault of their own
and now it is humiliating for them
to have to go to the unemployment
website
and my first response to them when they
were dming me was to say
these services are here for you you
should not feel embarrassed about taking
advantage of them they are here for you
so if it's a matter of pride or it's a
matter of feeling bad
put it aside right rewrite that
narrative in your head
that i'm a failure because you're not
and go take advantage of
every resource you have available
unemployment is one you should do that
first thing if you've been laid off
you should also take a look at what you
can control with your expenses so let's
talk about that one year emergency fund
what is that a lot of people mistakenly
think hey i make 60k a year
my emergency fund needs to be 60k
there's no way i can save 60k that's
crazy
well you don't need 60k in full
for your emergency fund so let's break
it down the way you do it is
you imagine what is the minimum amount
of money you need to live to cover your
rent
uh you know if you or your partner got
laid off you would probably be cutting
back
quite a bit okay how much does that cost
then you say all right i am going to
take everything that i can
and put it in an emergency fund in cash
just a simple high yield savings account
you don't need anything fancy
now a lot of people already have some
money in savings they've just never
thought of it as part of an emergency
fund
other people have been following my book
they've been automatically investing
so for them i tell them put your
investments on pause
and redirect that money to your
emergency fund
now it's probably going to take people a
while to save 12 months
but guess what that's okay even if you
get seven months of the way there
that's better than nothing and once you
have that money you have security you
have
safety you have the ability to breathe
and think about a perspective for your
job or your business that you want to
start
so that is what i would recommend take
advantage of all the resources you've
got
redirect any money you can towards that
emergency fund and remember it doesn't
necessarily have to be your full
salary it's probably a fraction of that
you talked about a high yield savings
account is that really a thing right now
like are people
giving interest rates well they're
actually it's a good question because
they're not really yielding
high but they're called high yield
savings accounts truthfully
uh people waste so much time chasing
interest rates
i'm gonna give you an example people
write me i get these emails every single
day
uh ramit um my ally account dropped from
1.5 to 1.35
oh should i switch i'm like why are you
emailing me this have you actually run
the numbers on a 10
000 balance we're talking about dollars
per year
it's nothing so the key thing everybody
needs to learn right now
is you don't make money on your savings
account that's not where money is made
it's just meant to be safe and stable
the real place you make money from
chapter seven in my book
is investing so that's a whole different
thing we can talk about that for people
who have money
um but right now they're paying zero
percent they're paying
0.5 it doesn't really matter it's just
there so your money is
liquid and available to you
if you had to put into a single sentence
what leadership is what what its nature
is if you will what would you say
leadership is generally it's the effort
of one or more people
to convince a larger group of people to
follow them
in doing something that the leaders
think is a good thing for everybody to
do
it could be social policy it could be a
political effort it could be a
business venture but basically leaders
are people who try to convince other
people
that it would be in everybody's best
interest to follow the leaders views on
what should be done
tell me about the time where you were
trying to give a speech and you were so
freaked out that your vision was
blurring and you couldn't even read what
was on your card because
honestly like if i hadn't heard you tell
that story i would just assume you're
really good at this
by nature because you're so good at this
like you're so
good and communicating is crazy and i've
seen you in front of like
50 000 people's bananas right so how did
you start
from like just absolutely being
paralyzed by fear like what was that
process
oh my gosh so but you really do your
research yeah my first time i talked i
literally went up and blanked out like i
literally could not think i could not
see the card how i fixed it speaking
was over time but i'll give you a couple
of key things on speaking for everybody
one i had to
i had to figure out you know what
someone said because you love baseball
you don't stutter when you talk about
baseball you don't get insecure i go
well i love that and i believe in it
they're like
oh you don't you know you talk about
your kids you're great
i thought oh there's a correlation here
between me actually saying what i
believe and what i'm passionate about
and my ability to communicate it and so
that now my first layer is always
i must be passionate about it and i must
believe it and i'm never doing an
impression of another person
so i always come from a place of saying
what i really believe because you can't
transfer to somebody that which you
don't experience yourself
i can give you passion i can give you
energy i can give you my belief
if i'm experiencing it big key is a
speaker i'll give everybody
stop trying to convince everybody of
what you're saying that's not the
threshold of being a good communicator
people do not need to believe what
you're saying
they need to believe you believe what
you're saying and as long as they
believe
you believe what you're saying you're an
effective speaker i stopped trying to
get people to believe me
there's a neediness there's a
salesmanship to that
i stopped that it's a subtle difference
i just want you to believe i believe it
that's influence influences you believe
i believe it
well there's seven and a half billion
people on the face of the earth
and in some respects almost everybody's
a leader in some way if you're a parent
you're a leader
you might be a leader of a girl scout
troop or you might be president of the
united states so everybody has
probably some roles where they play as a
leader um
is it good for everybody to want to be a
leader well i think leadership is good
if we had everybody being a follower
they have a lot of chaos
now in the military uh leadership is
more complicated because
those people who are leading in the
military they have people's lives
at stake if you're in combat and you're
not doing a good job in the military as
a combat leader people can die
not the same in other parts of life to
some extent but i do think that
uh people who want to be leaders uh can
develop and mature and
improve their leadership skills and
that's part of what i wrote about how
people became
great leaders after some starts that
were not so wonderful
some mistakes and some failures and
things like that
one moment that i'd really love to get
some color on and maybe this just comes
down to what your reasons were
after that first attempt which had to
have like just been searing into your
mind anxiety about speaking horrific
how did you get up the second time yeah
same room same people
that helped for me um but i figured out
i didn't
have any preparation so my confidence
when i speak now just like this
interview
the amount of preparation you've done
for this is it is more than anyone who's
interviewed me
right and so me the separation is in the
preparation like i
have to be prepared i have to know what
i'm going to talk about
and so that second time i i knew every
single thing i was going to say
i didn't do great but i did what i said
i was going to do i got up and i did it
i got up and i delivered and i just be
candid with you
i liked the feeling eventually
that i affected somebody i like the
feeling that you know maybe the first
time i spoke
i i didn't affect anybody that second
time maybe there were 40 people and
maybe one person i helped
and i had this very weird capacity now
to focus on the ones i help i actually
focus if i speak to 50 000 people
there's got to be 3 000 people there who
think i suck there has to be there's at
least 30
right there's someone here and if i
obsessed over those 30 people that's
what made me nervous
i was obsessed with just basically
reaching somebody so the irony was
the beginning of my speaking career it
was my anxiety and fear of it
that was what was inspiring about me not
the words i said over time i think the
words became more inspiring
but i found what was inspiring about me
what put them in spirit
and it was overcoming my anxiety and
fear of actually doing what they saw
i was at the gym yesterday and a woman
drove by me in a wheelchair at the gym
i was working out pretty hard and she
wheeled by me heavyset lady in a
wheelchair
i'd be honest with you i watched her
wheel past me
she inspired me do you know what courage
it takes to get in your wheelchair and
decide i'm going to go to the gym
right i'm going to go to the gym she's
heavy set awkward
that inspired me far more than the
jacked up dude doing 60 pound curls i
mean that's inspiring but you see that
a woman in a wheelchair at a gym with
her two pound dumbbells because her legs
don't work
but she went in there anyway and you
know how insecure she was about going in
there she's the only person
in a wheelchair she doesn't know what
she's going to see how people are going
to react to her she's not in shape she's
never
full makeup on and her little you know
halter top like the other girls in there
she's right in there
she was right in there working out right
next to them right i couldn't take my
eyes off her
i couldn't take my eyes off her and i
ended up telling her
that she was leaving i left what i was
doing i walked over i said i just want
you to know something
you're inspiring me this is wonderful
her face just lit
up because you know how sad she how
insecure she was about being in there
most inspiring person is the one
overcoming the fear of doing something
not the person who's excellent at it
so so in the book you break down
what are the sort of core tenets of or
aspects of leadership
um in the book were they in order of
importance
no they were not necessarily in the
order of importance but they were
you know i they were 13 that i kind of
thought were important and just to
review
the examples of them luck is very
important because you need some luck to
get anywhere i think
you need to have some persistence you
need to have a focus on what you want to
do
you need to know how to cooperate with
other people share the credit
you need to how to communicate well with
people either orally or
writing or some other method you also
need to i think
be ethical i think some humility helps a
lot obviously we know
arrogant leaders and have succeeded but
generally i think humility helps
rising to the occasion when a crisis
occurs is very important
so there are many different skill sets
that i think are common with the people
i interviewed
well look nobody ever won a nobel prize
working five
days a week nine to five if you're gonna
do something great it takes a lot of
time and hard work is important
so there aren't people there are not
people sitting around just get lucky and
all of a sudden the world goes to them
and says i want you to be our leader it
doesn't usually happen
second i think it is focus you can't do
a hundred things and do them all well
you can do one thing extremely well
maybe two or three
reasonably well but focus on what you
want to do and then i think you've got
to
just be willing to overcome failure
because everybody's going to fail and if
you give up if you fail and you don't
persist in your idea
you're not going to be a leader and
those are things that are very very
important
which is to say uh be persistent uh
focus on something and again you have to
want to be a leader
you can't sit in your home and say you
know i don't really want to be a leader
and all of a sudden people are going to
say you know you're our leader that
doesn't usually happen
if we really go back and we look at it i
had a couple good things happen for me
um or to me one was at that time my wife
did get frank with
me this is not who you are this is not
what you're about i don't recognize this
person
this is who you are and i had a other
person to my benefit
pointing out to me the things that were
great about me now this is going to
sound hokey but i'm going to give you
the big one
and this is why life gives you these
great tests i had a really good friend
of mine i went to lunch and he said
i don't know who this guy is here in
front of me and he goes let me ask you a
question
honestly right now what are you grateful
for
and at the lunch i said jack
nothing brother there's nothing good in
my life right now
and i'm not exaggerating this to you
when i tell you this and this is a
factual story
as i'm mouthing these words two people
walked in with an older man both of them
clearly were fighting cancer somehow
both had lost their hair
one of the ladies had a bonnet on and
they were barely moving in
both walked by our table and gave me the
most warm greeting the warmest smile as
a stranger
and he goes that's pretty freaking
pathetic you can't find anything in your
life to be grateful for right now
and on the drive home i'm not kidding
you i started to stack
gratitude i started to take inventory
because if you can find things to be
grateful for
in that space man is your life going to
be rich when there really are external
things to be grateful for
so my first mechanism out of that space
was
honestly to stack the things i was
grateful for and i started reinforcing
it over and over and over again
and what happens is there's this
reticular activating system in our
brains
right and all of a sudden because that's
the messaging i was giving myself
all of a sudden all these things start
to come into my awareness that i'm
grateful for
i start to magnetize to myself some
people that i needed to find into my
life and that was the next layer
i started to see things to be grateful
for my health my fitness
people who loved me what it is it
changed my state when i stacked
gratitude
i changed what i did in the morning and
i changed what i did in the evening
and so somehow by grabbing control of my
morning
and by grabbing control of my evening i
got some measure of control over the
middle of my day
i was an out of control person back in
those days meaning this i woke up
worried stressed fearful and i
immediately start thinking about a bill
i had to pay something that was wrong
and i'm in a state of reaction to begin
every i'm talking within
six minutes of waking up six seconds
most people listening to this that's
what they do
i said i gotta grab control of my
morning and i set up routines in my
morning
maybe they served me maybe they didn't
but they were things i could deliver on
doing
for myself and so not only did that give
me control over the day but i started to
stack my self-confidence too
some of what comes into that is framing
it how you think about failure
i mean you talk about that as one of the
important things that a leader has to be
able to do
how in your life have you um talked to
yourself
about what failure means well i failed
at lots of things and so you just have
to
say to yourself okay does the whole
world know i failed or just i know i
failed
and then the whole world knows it's a
little more embarrassing uh if you know
then maybe you don't
run around telling everybody how much
you fail and then you realize sometimes
you fail because you made a mistake or
sometimes you don't have the ability
that you wanted to have
or sometimes here has some bad luck but
everybody has failed at something in
life and if you say you haven't failed
at something you're not
being honest everybody's failing at
something all right my last question
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
the impact i want to have in the world
is it sounds real general but it's
something that i'm obsessed with is i
want to inspire as many people as i
physically can
in their lives to chase down the
ultimate version of them
in their way in their place and in their
space and so i happen to have a little
number written down
i think i can reach 100 million people
before i leave here with just that
message
of chase down the version of you that
you were born to be
that version of you or myself it has
nothing to do it could have to do with
money but it could have to do with the
people that you reach the people you
touch the one person's life you change
see the one thing in business that
people miss is that
someone hired me into the business i'm
in so although i'm a pretty good
business story
what about the person who gave me the
shot what about that door that opened
and how many people did he reach and no
one even knows his name
and so i want to be that person who
gives people their platform their shot
their shot at life their ability to join
the ranks of people who meet the highest
version of themselves and so
that's the impact i want to make in the
world hey everybody
thank you so much for watching and being
a part of this community if you haven't
already
be sure to subscribe you're going to get
weekly videos on building a growth
mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential